NAME
    background - work that must not happen on the thread that draws

DESCRIPTION
    Anything that may take longer than a frame is a background job. Walking
    a directory tree for manual pages, searching a project, building an
    index: done where a command is done, each of those is the editor
    stopping. Done in the background and reported carelessly, each is a
    mode being changed underneath itself by another thread.

    A job is started by one call that names what to do and what to do when
    it is done.

        (background-call NAME JOB &optional ON-PROGRESS ON-DONE INTERVAL)
        (stop-worker NAME)
        (running-workers)
        (completion-invalidate)

THE TWO SHAPES
    JOB is either a function of no arguments, run once, or a `fiber',
    resumed a turn at a time. A fiber is the shape to use whenever the work
    divides, because each (yield) in it is a progress point and there is
    nowhere else progress could be reported from.

        (background-call 'manpage-index
                         (fiber (let ((left manpage-path))
                                  (while left
                                    (manpage--index-one (car left))
                                    (setq left (cdr left))
                                    (yield))))
                         'manpage--index-progress
                         'manpage--index-done)

    A `while' rather than a `dolist', and that is not a matter of taste: a
    (yield) is only legal where the evaluator can record a way back to it,
    which is a body statement or a form of a `while'. A `dolist' body is
    not one of those, and a yield there is refused -- so a fiber is
    written as a loop that walks its own list.

    ON-PROGRESS is called with NAME after every turn but the last. ON-DONE
    is called once, with NAME and t if the job reached its end or nil if it
    was stopped -- either way, because a mode that is never told stays
    waiting for ever.

WHICH THREAD RUNS WHAT
    The job runs on the background thread. Both callbacks run on the thread
    that runs commands, between commands.

    That division is the whole of the arrangement. A job runs while you are
    typing: half-way through an insertion, inside a hook that is walking a
    list it is also changing. Anything it calls sees the editor in whatever
    state the command in progress has left it in, and no amount of care in
    the thing being called fixes that, because it is not the callee's
    fault.

    A callback queued to the command thread runs where a keystroke would
    run, with the same locks free and the same invariants holding. So a
    callback may do anything a command may do, and a job may not.

    The price is that a callback is not immediate. It is at most one pass
    of the event loop away -- the same delay a keystroke has.

THE RULE
    1.  Anything that may take longer than a frame is a background job, and
        a job is started by one call that names what to do and what to do
        when it is done.

    2.  A job never draws. It changes state; the renderer notices. There is
        no other order that works, because the thread that draws is not the
        thread the job is on.

    3.  A job never assumes the editor stood still. The buffer may be gone,
        the variable may have been set again, the version it read may be
        two edits old. It re-checks before it stores, and what it cannot
        re-check it does not keep.

    4.  Progress is a signal, not a redraw. A job says there is more now;
        what more means is the mode's business.

    5.  The mode keeps itself consistent. Which is a fair thing to ask only
        because the signal arrives somewhere a mode can answer it.

    6.  Errors are logged, never raised. The command that started the job
        returned long ago; there is nobody to raise to.

    7.  A job is superseded, not duplicated. Starting one under a name that
        has one retires the old, and the old one's queued callbacks are
        dropped rather than delivered against the new one's state.

WHAT THE CALLBACKS ARE GIVEN
    The name the job ran under, and nothing else.

    Not what it produced, deliberately. Between the turn that produced
    something and the callback that reports it, the buffer may have been
    killed and the variable set again -- so a callback that was handed a
    result would be handed a result about a world that no longer exists. A
    callback looks up what it needs, and finds either the current answer or
    nothing.

SAYING THE CANDIDATES CHANGED
    The one signal common enough to be a primitive.

    A module whose completion candidates are built in the background calls
    `completion-invalidate' from its ON-PROGRESS. That forgets the answer
    remembered for the current input, so the next Tab asks again, and calls
    `*completion-invalidated-function*' if a presenter has registered one,
    so a list already on screen redraws with what there is now.

    Neither module has to have been loaded for the other to work, which is
    the point of it going through the editor rather than through a call
    from one to the other.

WHICH THREAD, AND WHY THERE IS MORE THAN ONE
    One rule decides it:

        The shared thread may only run work that is guaranteed to return.

    A fiber's turn is guaranteed to return, because `worker-fuel' cuts it
    off whether it wants to stop or not. A chunk of syntax colouring is
    the same. Any number of those share one thread and take turns on a
    timer, and a turn costs nothing.

    Reading a child process's output is not guaranteed to return. Nor is
    walking a directory tree. These take as long as the system takes, and
    no budget shortens them -- so each gets a thread of its own, started
    and then forgotten about.

    The rule is not decoration. `M-x compile' on a long build used to hold
    the shared thread for the whole build: colouring stopped, the file
    watcher stopped, the auto-saver stopped, and every worker and every
    background job stopped until the build finished. A second command
    started meanwhile did run -- a process begins the moment it is
    spawned -- but nothing read its output, so it printed into a pipe
    nobody was emptying and showed nothing until the build was over.

    So: if the work can be written as turns, write it as turns and it
    costs a fiber. If it blocks, it is a thread, and in Lisp that means
    `shell-command-start' -- which is the only door to blocking work that
    Lisp has, deliberately.

WORKERS ARE THE OTHER HALF
    `define-worker' starts something that goes on for the life of the
    session -- syntax colouring, watching files for changes. A job
    finishes. They share a namespace and a retirement mechanism on purpose,
    so that `stop-worker' and `running-workers' mean one thing, and a name
    cannot be both.

    Each turn of either gets `worker-fuel' to spend, separately from the
    budget commands run under: nothing the user does can cut a turn short,
    and a turn that runs past its allowance is stopped and the job retired,
    because a turn that never ends holds the thread syntax colouring and
    the prescanner also run on.

SEE ALSO
    define-worker, stop-worker, running-workers, background-call,
    completion-invalidate, yield, fiber
