NAME
    configuration - making it yours

DESCRIPTION
    The editor reads one file when it starts: init.lisp, in a directory it
    works out like this, most specific first.

        $RSEDIT_CONFIG_DIR          used as given, on any system
        $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/rsedit     on Unix
        ~/.config/rsedit            everywhere but Windows
        %APPDATA%\rsedit            on Windows

    If there is none, one is written for you with every module listed and a
    comment on each. Read it before you change it: it is the shortest
    description of what the editor is made of.

    init.lisp is this editor's own Lisp, which is close enough to Emacs Lisp
    to read and not the same language. M-: evaluates an expression without
    restarting, which is how you try a line before keeping it.

THE FOUR THINGS YOU WILL WRITE
    A setting:

        (setq case-fold-search nil)        ; searching minds capitals
        (setq tab-width 8)                 ; what a Tab is worth

    A key:

        (define-key nil "C-c w" 'whitespace-cleanup)
        (define-key 'rust-mode "C-c b" 'cargo-build)

    A command of your own:

        (defcommand insert-date () nil
          "Insert today's date."
          (insert (shell-command-to-string "date +%Y-%m-%d")))

    Something to happen at a moment:

        (add-hook 'rust-mode "post-command-hook" 'my-function)

    C-h v on any variable says what it is for and what it is set to now, which
    is a better list of settings than this page could keep.

MODULES
    Each feature above the mechanics is a file, loaded by a line in
    init.lisp:

        (eval-file "completion")   ; Tab shows every candidate at once
        (eval-file "dired")        ; a directory in a buffer
        (eval-file "shell")        ; M-! runs a command

    Comment one out and the editor comes up without exactly that feature and
    nothing else. None of them needs any other, so the order is only the
    order you want them in -- except that `commands' defines `defcommand' and
    `debug' defines `message', so those two come first.

    They are installed beside the editor and you can read all of them. The one
    to read first is rust-mode.lisp, which is a whole mode in a hundred and
    thirty lines.

    Your own file goes in the same directory and is loaded the same way.

COLOURS
    C-c t lists the themes; Return on one applies it. To fix a choice:

        (eval-file "theme")
        (select-theme 'monochrome)

    Or set one face at a time, which is what a theme is made of:

        (set-face 'keyword "bright-magenta")

    See `themes' for what the faces are and how a terminal's palette is dealt
    with.

THINGS WORTH TURNING ON
        (toggle-line-numbers)              ; also M-x
        (mouse-mode-toggle)                ; if your terminal reports one
        (eval-file "clipboard")            ; kills also go to the system one

WHEN IT WILL NOT LOAD
    A module that fails to load says so and the editor comes up anyway, which
    is the point of them being separate. C-h e shows everything the editor has
    said, including what went wrong and where.

    M-: evaluates one expression, so a line that does not work can be tried
    until it does without restarting.

SEE ALSO
    keymaps, modes, themes, writing-commands, guide
