NAME
    macros - record what you pressed, and press it again

DESCRIPTION
    Do the thing once, with C-x ( first. Then do it again as often as you
    like.

        C-x (        start recording      C-x )   stop
        C-x e        stop, if recording, and run it
        C-u N C-x e  run it N times
        C-x C-k C-i  insert the counter
        C-x C-k C-c  set the counter

    Recording is not a rehearsal: the keys are recorded *and* obeyed, which
    is what makes a macro something you get by doing the job once rather
    than by writing it down. M-x kmacro-cancel-macro throws a recording
    away; what it did stays done, which undo is for.

WHAT IS RECORDED
    Keys. Not commands, and the difference shows up in three places.

    A command that reads a character of its own -- M-z, zap-to-char --
    takes that character without a second command running. A recorder
    watching commands would replay M-z as a wait for a character that never
    arrives.

    C-u and the digits after it are taken by the prefix-argument reader and
    never reach a keymap, so C-u 3 C-f would replay as a bare C-f.

    And a key that has been rebound since means the new thing. A macro is a
    shorthand for pressing keys, not a frozen program.

    A paste is not recorded. The terminal reports one as a paste rather
    than as the keys it looks like -- which is what stops a pasted bracket
    being auto-paired -- and there is no key to record. A macro recorded
    over a paste replays without it.

WHERE IT GOES
    One slot: the macro you recorded last. C-x e runs it.

    To keep one, give it a name:

        (define-kbd-macro 'tidy-line "C-a C-k C-y")
        (define-key nil "C-c t" 'tidy-line)

    which makes an ordinary command -- M-x finds it, describe-function
    explains it, where-is finds its key. `kbd-macro-keys' prints the last
    macro in exactly that syntax, so saving one is copying a line into your
    configuration. There is no macro file format and nothing to load.

    Calling a macro from inside another is what a *named* macro is for. A
    key bound to kmacro-call-macro would call whatever the last macro is by
    then, which while recording is the one being recorded.

THE COUNTER
    A number a macro can insert, which advances each time it is inserted:

        C-x (  C-x C-k C-i  C-n C-a  C-x )      then  C-u 9 C-x e

    numbers ten lines. C-x C-k C-c sets it; starting a recording sets it to
    zero. kmacro-insert-counter takes a width, so (kmacro-insert-counter 3)
    gives 007 and a numbered list sorts the way it reads.

    It advances when inserted rather than once per repetition, so a macro
    that puts the number in twice gets two different numbers.

UNDO
    One step per repetition. A fifty-command macro undoes in one press, and
    a macro run twenty times can be walked back a repetition at a time --
    nobody who ran a macro meant to undo a fiftieth of it.

WHEN IT STOPS
    At the first key that fails. Every key after a failure would be pressed
    in a state the recording never saw, which is how a macro does damage
    rather than merely not working. Remaining repetitions are abandoned
    too, and the echo area says so.

    Nothing else can interrupt one. The keys are replayed inside a single
    command, on the thread that would have delivered a C-g, so a replay
    runs to its end or to its failure. A macro that calls itself is stopped
    by a limit on how deeply replays may nest.

    That limit is not a tidiness measure. Each level of replay is a real
    call through the key handler, so a self-calling macro grows the call
    stack, and the stack runs out long before the execution budget does --
    the first version of this aborted the editor rather than reporting
    anything.

SEE ALSO
    keymaps, (kmacro-start-macro), (kmacro-call-macro),
    (define-kbd-macro), (kbd-macro-keys), (kmacro-insert-counter)
