NAME
    modes - what a buffer is being edited as

DESCRIPTION
    Every buffer has one major mode. It decides three things: how the text is
    coloured, which keys mean something other than what they usually mean, and
    what counts as a comment.

    C-h M says what the current buffer's mode is and what it does.

WHICH MODE A BUFFER GETS
    From its file's name. A .rs file gives you rust-mode; .c, .h, .cpp, .hpp,
    .cc, .cxx and .hxx give cpp-mode; .lisp and .risp give risp-mode, which is
    this editor's own Lisp. Anything else is fundamental-mode, which colours
    nothing and takes no keys of its own.

    A buffer that is not a file gets the mode whatever made it asked for: a
    directory listing is dired-mode, a compilation's output is
    compilation-mode, a manual page is manpage-mode.

WHAT COLOURING IS
    A list of patterns over the text, each saying "this shape is a keyword"
    or "this shape is a string". It is not a parser: a mode can say that a
    word in a list is a keyword and cannot say anything about what the code
    means.

    That is a deliberate limit, and the thing that fills the gap is an
    *overlay* -- a face on one particular span, put there by something that
    knows why. A search marks its matches that way, and so does a
    compilation's current complaint. See `overlays'.

    Colour arrives a chunk at a time on a background thread, so a large file
    opens as plain text and fills in rather than making you wait.

MODES THAT SHIP
        fundamental-mode    no colouring, no keys of its own
        rust-mode           .rs
        cpp-mode            .c, .h, .cpp, .hpp, .cc, .cxx, .hxx
        risp-mode           .lisp, .risp -- this editor's own Lisp
        dired-mode          a directory listing
        compilation-mode    a build's output
        shell-output-mode   a command's output
        occur-mode          a list of matches
        manpage-mode        a manual page
        help-mode           an answer from the help system
        buffer-list-mode    the list of buffers
        minibuffer-mode     a prompt
        isearch-mode        a search in progress
        completion-mode     the strip of candidates
        theme-list-mode     the list of themes
        backtrace-mode      where an error came from

    Each is a .lisp file you can read, and taking one out of your
    configuration removes exactly that feature.

MODE KEYS
    A mode's keys are consulted before the global ones, so a listing can use
    plain letters. Nearly all of them agree on four:

        n  p            down and up a line
        q               put this away
        g               build it again, where that means anything

    A key the mode does not bind falls through to the global map, which is why
    C-x C-f works in a directory listing.

HOOKS
    A mode runs its hooks at two moments, and anything can add to them:

        (add-hook 'rust-mode "post-command-hook" 'my-function)

    post-self-insert-hook runs after a character is typed -- which is where
    auto-pairing lives -- and post-command-hook after every command. nil
    instead of a mode name means every mode.

WRITING ONE
    A mode is `make-mode', some `add-syntax-rule' calls, some `define-key'
    calls, and an `add-auto-mode' saying which file names it claims.
    rust-mode.lisp is a hundred and thirty lines of it and is the one to copy.

SEE ALSO
    keymaps, overlays, themes, configuration
