NAME
    overlays - a face on one particular span of text

DESCRIPTION
    A mode's colouring is a set of patterns: it can say "a word in this list
    is a keyword" and cannot say "this span, here, because of something that
    happened". A search marking its matches, a diagnostic arriving from
    elsewhere, a manual page whose emphasis was in the bytes rather than in
    the words -- none of those are expressible as a rule over the text.

    An overlay is that: a span, a face, a priority, and a category naming
    whatever made it.

        (make-overlay START END FACE &optional PRIORITY CATEGORY)  => handle
        (delete-overlay HANDLE)
        (remove-overlays &optional CATEGORY)
        (overlays-at POSITION)
        (overlay-face HANDLE)

DRAW ORDER
    Syntax colouring, then overlays, then the region. An overlay is drawn
    over the mode's colouring, so a diagnostic is visible on a keyword; the
    selection is drawn over everything, which is what the eye depends on.

    Among themselves, overlays are ordered by priority, higher winning.
    Equal priorities are drawn oldest first, so the later one covers.

SURVIVING EDITS
    Overlays are the only stored positions in the editor. Everything else
    either recomputes each frame -- syntax spans, the region -- or is
    invalidated when the text changes. So the two doors move them.

    Inserting before an overlay carries it along. Inserting at either end
    leaves the new text outside it: a highlighted match stays exactly the
    text that matched, however much is typed either side. Inserting strictly
    inside is absorbed, because text typed into a highlighted region is part
    of it.

    Deleting shrinks an overlay, and deleting everything it covered removes
    it. Undoing that deletion does not bring it back -- whatever made the
    overlay will make it again if it still matters.

CATEGORIES
    The useful half of the interface. A producer re-running -- a search
    finding new matches -- clears its own batch with one call rather than
    keeping every handle, and that still works after the module has been
    reloaded, which loose handles do not survive.

        (remove-overlays 'isearch)

WHAT THEY ARE NOT
    An overlay carries a face and a priority and nothing else. It says
    something about characters that are already there.

    Text that is *not* there -- an inlay hint, a preview of what a command
    would insert -- is virtual text, which is its own thing and not a field
    on this one. It is anchored at a point rather than over a span, and an
    overlay with no width is one this table deletes: that rule is what stops
    a highlight lingering after everything it covered has gone. See
    `virtual-text'.

    Emacs' invisible and overlay keymaps would still need renderer and input
    support this editor does not have, so they are not accepted rather than
    being stored and quietly ignored.

    The mark is not an overlay, though it could be. It is deactivated by
    every edit precisely so that it never needs adjusting for one.

SEE ALSO
    virtual-text, buffers, windows, (make-overlay), (set-face),
    (list-faces)
