NAME
    virtual-text - text shown in a window and not in the buffer

DESCRIPTION
    An inlay hint from a language server -- a parameter name, an inferred
    type -- shown where it would go if it had been written. A preview of
    what a command is about to insert, before it has inserted anything.
    Anything the reader should see at a position in the text without the
    text having changed.

        (make-virtual-text POSITION TEXT &optional FACE PRIORITY CATEGORY)
        (clear-virtual-text &optional CATEGORY)
        (delete-virtual-text HANDLE)
        (virtual-text-at POSITION)

    The text is drawn in front of the character at POSITION, pushing the
    rest of the line to the right. The buffer is not modified: nothing
    reaches the undo history, nothing is marked unsaved, and saving writes
    the file as it was. Inserting the text for real and taking it out again
    would do all three, and all three are invisible at the time and wrong
    much later.

NOT AN OVERLAY
    An overlay puts a face on characters that are already there. This has
    no characters -- it sits between two of them, so it is anchored at a
    point rather than over a span.

    That is also why it is not a field on an overlay. An overlay with no
    width is deleted by the overlay table, which keeps only those whose
    start is before their end; that rule is what stops a highlight
    lingering after everything it covered has gone, and a point has nothing
    for it to be true of.

NOTHING KNOWS WHAT IT IS FOR
    There is no hint, no diagnostic and no blame in the editor. Those are
    CATEGORY names a producer chooses, exactly as `isearch' is a category
    of overlay, and the whole of what the editor does with one is let that
    producer replace its own batch in a single call:

        (clear-virtual-text 'lsp-hints)

    which still works after the module that made them has been reloaded,
    and which loose handles do not.

    A mechanism that understood the difference between a hint and a preview
    would be one that had to be taught about the next kind.

WHERE POINT GOES
    Point is never inside it. Virtual text is not somewhere the cursor can
    be, so moving across the position it sits at steps over it in one go,
    and clicking it puts point on the character it is in front of -- the
    one it is about.

    The cursor is drawn *after* text anchored at its column, because the
    text comes before that column and the cursor is on the character.

AT THE END OF A LINE
    Give the position of that line's newline, which `(line-end-position)'
    is. A line's last column and the column its newline occupies are
    different positions, and the second is the one that means "after
    everything".

MOVING WITH THE TEXT
    Typing before it carries it along. Typing exactly where it sits pushes
    it along with the character it was in front of, rather than leaving it
    in front of what was just typed. Deleting the text it sat in front of
    leaves it where that text began.

    It is never dropped. A producer whose text has ended up somewhere wrong
    says so by clearing its category and placing it again -- which is what
    a language server does after every edit in any case.

    Reverting a buffer takes it down, for the same reason reverting clears
    the overlays: it describes a position in text that no longer exists.

WHAT IT COSTS
    Two coordinate systems. A row showing virtual text is wider than the
    line it came from, so a buffer column and a screen column are no longer
    the same number, and five things have to ask rather than assume: what
    is drawn, where the cursor goes, how far the window scrolls sideways to
    keep it visible, where a highlight's columns land, and which character
    a click is on.

    All five go through one mapping, per row, so there is one place to get
    it right rather than five places to forget it.

ROWS
    A row is one row of the screen and records which buffer line it came
    from. Today that is always one row per line. The five callers are
    written against rows rather than lines so that a decoration occupying a
    row of its own, or a long line wrapped across two, is a new kind of
    producer rather than a third coordinate system.

SEE ALSO
    overlays, buffers, windows, (make-virtual-text),
    (clear-virtual-text), (pending-command)
