NAME
    writing-commands - when a setting is not enough

DESCRIPTION
    A command is a function the editor knows how to ask for the arguments of.
    That is the whole of the difference: an ordinary function you call from
    Lisp, and a command you can also reach from M-x and bind to a key.

        (defcommand insert-date () nil
          "Insert today's date."
          (insert (shell-command-to-string "date +%Y-%m-%d")))

    Then M-x insert-date works, C-h f insert-date shows that description, and

        (define-key nil "C-c d" 'insert-date)

    puts it on a key.

ARGUMENTS
    A command says what its arguments are and the editor collects them. One
    code per parameter:

        "sPROMPT"       a string
        "nPROMPT"       a number
        "bPROMPT"       a buffer name, with completion
        "fPROMPT"       a file name, with completion
        "p"             the numeric prefix argument -- C-u 5 and so on
        "r"             the region, as two arguments

    So:

        (defcommand surround (before after) ("sBefore: " "sAfter: ")
          "Put BEFORE and AFTER around the region."
          (let ((start (region-beginning)) (end (region-end)))
            (goto-char end) (insert after)
            (goto-char start) (insert before)))

    nil means a command with no arguments. The editor checks the codes against
    the parameters when the command is defined, so the two cannot drift apart.

    Calling a command from Lisp is a plain call and prompts for nothing, which
    is what makes commands usable as building blocks.

WHAT YOU HAVE TO WORK WITH
    C-h a is the real answer, but the shapes are these.

    Where you are, and moving:

        (point)  (goto-char N)  (point-min)  (point-max)
        (line-number-at-point)  (goto-line N)
        (beginning-of-line)  (end-of-line)  (forward-char N)

    Reading and changing text:

        (buffer-substring FROM TO)  (buffer-string)  (current-line)
        (insert TEXT)  (delete-region FROM TO)

    The selection:

        (region-beginning)  (region-end)  (mark)  (set-mark)

    Buffers:

        (current-buffer)  (buffer-name)  (all-buffer-names)
        (switch-to-buffer NAME)  (with-current-buffer NAME FUNCTION)

    Saying something:

        (message "format %s" value)   in the echo area
        (log "...")                   in the message buffer

ASKING A QUESTION
    `minibuffer-read' puts up a prompt and calls you back:

        (minibuffer-read "Which? " 'on-confirm 'on-change 'on-cancel)

    ON-CHANGE, if given, is asked for completion candidates. A command with
    argument codes does not need this -- the editor does it for you -- and
    this is for a question that is not an argument.

    `yes-or-no' asks a yes-or-no question the same way. Both return before the
    answer arrives, because a prompt is a conversation and not a pause: the
    editor keeps drawing, and your work carries on in the callback.

MARKING SOMETHING
    Colouring is patterns over the text and cannot say "this span, because of
    something that happened". An overlay can:

        (make-overlay START END 'error 10 'my-checker)
        (remove-overlays 'my-checker)

    The last argument is a category, and clearing by category is how a
    producer replaces its own marks without keeping a handle for each. See
    `overlays'.

    To show text that is *not* in the buffer -- a hint, a preview -- see
    `virtual-text'.

WORK THAT TAKES TIME
    Anything that might take longer than a frame does not belong on the thread
    that draws. One call starts it:

        (background-call 'my-index (fiber ...) 'on-progress 'on-done)

    and the two callbacks run between commands, where it is safe to change
    what a mode is showing. See `background', which states the rule the whole
    editor follows for this.

    `shell-command-start' runs a program and appends its output as it arrives,
    each on a thread of its own.

AT A MOMENT
        (add-hook nil "post-command-hook" 'my-function)
        (add-hook 'rust-mode "post-self-insert-hook" 'my-function)

    nil means every mode. post-self-insert-hook runs after a character is
    typed; post-command-hook after every command.

TRYING IT
    M-: evaluates an expression. C-h e shows everything the editor has said,
    including the backtrace of anything that failed. A function redefined with
    M-: takes effect at once, so the loop is: change the file, evaluate the
    definition, press the key.

KEYS
    M-:                     eval-expression-prompt

SEE ALSO
    configuration, keymaps, overlays, virtual-text, background
